README.md, before:

This repository has scripts that read, validate and parse metadata from the following files:
- XBE (XBox eXecutable), Xbox only
    - XBE files (`filename.xbe`) can be extracted from Xbox game partitions, using programs such as [extract-xiso](https://github.com/XboxDev/extract-xiso) or [NKit2](https://github.com/Nanook/NKit)
- DMI (Disc Manufacturing Information sector), Xbox and Xbox 360
    - DMI files (e.g. `DMI.bin` or `filename.dmi`) can be obtained from the SCSI command READ DISC STRUCTURE using dumping programs such as [Redumper](https://github.com/superg/redumper), [DiscImageCreator](https://github.com/saramibreak/DiscImageCreator/), and XboxBackupCreator
- SS (Security Sector), Xbox and Xbox 360
    - SS files (e.g. `SS.bin` or `filename.ss`) can be obtained from specific disc drives using dumping programs such as [Redumper](https://github.com/superg/redumper), [DiscImageCreator](https://github.com/saramibreak/DiscImageCreator/), and XboxBackupCreator

TODO:
- XEX (Xbox 360 executable file)

# ParseXBE

`python ParseXBE.py <filename.xbe>`

Parses Xbox XBE files for their useful metadata, e.g.

```
XBE Timestamp: 2003-12-19 17:46:38 UTC
Certificate Timestamp: 2005-04-11 19:24:08 UTC
Title ID: MS-133
Title Name: CDX
Alternate Title IDs:
    MS-109
Allowed Media: 0x202
Game Region: 0x7
Game Ratings: 0x2
Disc Number: 0
Certificate Version: 2
```

# ParseDMI

`python ParseDMI.py <filename> [-v, --verbose]`

Parses Xbox and Xbox360 DMI sector for its useful metadata, e.g.

```
System: Xbox (XGD1)
XMID: MS13302W
DMI Datetime: 2005-04-11 19:23:43864302
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD2/3)
DMI Date: 2012-09-24
XOR Key: Retail
Media ID: 4F24FBB52FD1F0B37DC7ACDE-4CB283E9
XeMID: MS232924W0AF11
PFI CRC: 26AF4C58
```

# ParseSS

`python ParseSS.py <filename|directory> [-v,--verbose] [-r,--recursive] [-s,--ss-only]`

Parse Xbox and Xbox360 SS sector for its useful metadata, e.g.

```
System: Xbox (XGD1)
SS Hash: F18A4787
LBA Data Start: 198144
LBA Layerbreak: 1913775
LBA Data Final: 3629407
CPR_MAI Key: D2F5A6C7
enCrypted Challenge Responses: 23
Creation Timestamp: 2004-11-01 10:06:51607000
Authoring Timestamp: 2004-11-01 11:16:14991300
Certificate Timestamp: 2004-11-02 11:11:33000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2004-11-08 23:40:55041635
SS LBA Range #01: 368086-372181
SS LBA Range #02: 525408-529503
SS LBA Range #03: 681570-685665
SS LBA Range #04: 832282-836377
SS LBA Range #05: 988248-992343
SS LBA Range #06: 1140874-1144969
SS LBA Range #07: 1300696-1304791
SS LBA Range #08: 1840940-1845035
SS LBA Range #09: 2446418-2450513
SS LBA Range #10: 2605898-2609993
SS LBA Range #11: 2754620-2758715
SS LBA Range #12: 2913906-2918001
SS LBA Range #13: 3063402-3067497
SS LBA Range #14: 3225774-3229869
SS LBA Range #15: 3379016-3383111
SS LBA Range #16: 3534182-3538277
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD2)
XGD2: Cleaned Kreon-style SS (Redump hash)
SS Hash: 3522A865
Redump SS Hash: 3522A865
Fixed angles SS Hash: 364A11EA
abgx360 filename: SS_A15016B3.bin
LBA Data Start: 129824
LBA Layerbreak: 1913759
LBA Data Final: 3697695
CPR_MAI Key: 4D567B55
Media ID: D2D2FEE254B8C0A173CA9FA4-44C47D22
Authoring Timestamp: 2008-09-29 00:00:00000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2008-10-04 06:52:34781250
SS LBA Range #01: 108976-113071
SS LBA Range #04: 3719856-3723951
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD3)
XGD3: Cleaned SSv2 (Redump hash)
SS Hash: 4D6D63CA
Redump SS Hash: 4D6D63CA
abgx360 filename: SS_68938F7A.bin
LBA Data Start: 16640
LBA Layerbreak: 2133519
LBA Data Final: 4246303
Unknown1 Value: 003BEBB0
CPR_MAI Key: 2A665A58
Media ID: 70239869090D1AD8C8F566B6-39376ED6
Authoring Timestamp: 2015-08-30 00:00:00000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2015-09-08 12:40:25437740
SS LBA Range #01: 12544-16639
SS LBA Range #04: 4246304-4250399
```

# CleanSS

A python reimplementation of [ss_sector_range](http://redump.org/download/ss_sector_range_1.0e.rar) that will edit an SS file such that its CRC32 hash matches the hash that redump tracks for SS files. Specifically, it sets the "angle" values in the reponse table to be fixed values such that SS files that are identical except for their angle values, will "clean" to the same file, the "Redump hash" that is printed by ParseSS.py

Commit message:

Add --ssv2 flag, fix ParseSS

README.md, after:

This repository has scripts that read, validate and parse metadata from the following files:
- XBE (XBox eXecutable), Xbox only
    - XBE files (`filename.xbe`) can be extracted from Xbox game partitions, using programs such as [extract-xiso](https://github.com/XboxDev/extract-xiso) or [NKit2](https://github.com/Nanook/NKit)
- DMI (Disc Manufacturing Information sector), Xbox and Xbox 360
    - DMI files (e.g. `DMI.bin` or `filename.dmi`) can be obtained from the SCSI command READ DISC STRUCTURE using dumping programs such as [Redumper](https://github.com/superg/redumper), [DiscImageCreator](https://github.com/saramibreak/DiscImageCreator/), and XboxBackupCreator
- SS (Security Sector), Xbox and Xbox 360
    - SS files (e.g. `SS.bin` or `filename.ss`) can be obtained from specific disc drives using dumping programs such as [Redumper](https://github.com/superg/redumper), [DiscImageCreator](https://github.com/saramibreak/DiscImageCreator/), and XboxBackupCreator

TODO:
- XEX (Xbox 360 executable file)

# ParseXBE

`python ParseXBE.py <filename.xbe>`

Parses Xbox XBE files for their useful metadata, e.g.

```
XBE Timestamp: 2003-12-19 17:46:38 UTC
Certificate Timestamp: 2005-04-11 19:24:08 UTC
Title ID: MS-133
Title Name: CDX
Alternate Title IDs:
    MS-109
Allowed Media: 0x202
Game Region: 0x7
Game Ratings: 0x2
Disc Number: 0
Certificate Version: 2
```

# ParseDMI

`python ParseDMI.py <filename> [-v, --verbose]`

Parses Xbox and Xbox360 DMI sector for its useful metadata, e.g.

```
System: Xbox (XGD1)
XMID: MS13302W
DMI Datetime: 2005-04-11 19:23:43864302
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD2/3)
DMI Date: 2012-09-24
XOR Key: Retail
Media ID: 4F24FBB52FD1F0B37DC7ACDE-4CB283E9
XeMID: MS232924W0AF11
PFI CRC: 26AF4C58
```

# ParseSS

`python ParseSS.py <filename|directory> [-v,--verbose] [-r,--recursive] [-s,--ss-only]`

Parse Xbox and Xbox360 SS sector for its useful metadata, e.g.

```
System: Xbox (XGD1)
SS Hash: F18A4787
LBA Data Start: 198144
LBA Layerbreak: 1913775
LBA Data Final: 3629407
CPR_MAI Key: D2F5A6C7
enCrypted Challenge Responses: 23
Creation Timestamp: 2004-11-01 10:06:51607000
Authoring Timestamp: 2004-11-01 11:16:14991300
Certificate Timestamp: 2004-11-02 11:11:33000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2004-11-08 23:40:55041635
SS LBA Range #01: 368086-372181
SS LBA Range #02: 525408-529503
SS LBA Range #03: 681570-685665
SS LBA Range #04: 832282-836377
SS LBA Range #05: 988248-992343
SS LBA Range #06: 1140874-1144969
SS LBA Range #07: 1300696-1304791
SS LBA Range #08: 1840940-1845035
SS LBA Range #09: 2446418-2450513
SS LBA Range #10: 2605898-2609993
SS LBA Range #11: 2754620-2758715
SS LBA Range #12: 2913906-2918001
SS LBA Range #13: 3063402-3067497
SS LBA Range #14: 3225774-3229869
SS LBA Range #15: 3379016-3383111
SS LBA Range #16: 3534182-3538277
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD2)
XGD2: Cleaned Kreon-style SS (Redump hash)
SS Hash: 3522A865
Redump SS Hash: 3522A865
Fixed angles SS Hash: 364A11EA
abgx360 filename: SS_A15016B3.bin
LBA Data Start: 129824
LBA Layerbreak: 1913759
LBA Data Final: 3697695
CPR_MAI Key: 4D567B55
Media ID: D2D2FEE254B8C0A173CA9FA4-44C47D22
Authoring Timestamp: 2008-09-29 00:00:00000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2008-10-04 06:52:34781250
SS LBA Range #01: 108976-113071
SS LBA Range #04: 3719856-3723951
```
```
System: Xbox 360 (XGD3)
XGD3: Cleaned SSv2 (Redump hash)
SS Hash: 4D6D63CA
Redump SS Hash: 4D6D63CA
abgx360 filename: SS_68938F7A.bin
LBA Data Start: 16640
LBA Layerbreak: 2133519
LBA Data Final: 4246303
Unknown1 Value: 003BEBB0
CPR_MAI Key: 2A665A58
Media ID: 70239869090D1AD8C8F566B6-39376ED6
Authoring Timestamp: 2015-08-30 00:00:00000000
Mastering Timestamp: 2015-09-08 12:40:25437740
SS LBA Range #01: 12544-16639
SS LBA Range #04: 4246304-4250399
```

# CleanSS

A python reimplementation of [ss_sector_range](http://redump.org/download/ss_sector_range_1.0e.rar) that will edit an SS file such that its CRC32 hash matches the hash that redump tracks for SS files.
Specifically, it sets the "angle" values in the reponse table to be fixed values such that SS files that are identical except for their angle values, will "clean" to the same file, the "Redump hash" that is printed by ParseSS.
With the `--ssv2` flag, it will "clean" the SS to SSv2 fixed values (what ParseSS calls "Cleaned 0800-style SS (Fixed angles)"). This does not match redump hashes.
